# Search-and-Rescue-Drone
Using a generative design approach to design a low cost drone **PROJECT ON HOLD**

Search-and-rescue (SAR) operations are often characterized by their unique set of constraints: response time is vital in minimizing human casualties and environments are dangerous and unpredictable (Liu et. Al., 2007). However, in developing nations where these operations are almost entirely conducted by ground teams with minimal equipment, they are not only dangerous, but also ineffective leading to more casualties (Liu et. Al., 2007). One proposed solution is to use aerial vehicles which are fast, reliable, and easy to operate (David et. Al., 2021). Aerial vehicles like drones have shown to reduce SAR operation times as well as improve accuracy in finding survivors (DJI-EENA Drone Efficacy Study). Additionally, because of their flying capabilities, they are flexible enough to be used in a wide range of situations which makes them suitable for SAR. Efforts to reduce the cost of drones mainly for commercial use has made them more accessible than ever, but drones made specifically for SAR are still expensive which limits their capabilities. Thus, this paper presents a novel 3D printed drone designed for flexibility and low cost. A generative design approach will be used to minimize material and print times while multiple motors and propellers will be tested. Results of these tests will be collected to develop an open source framework for 3D printed drones, recommending specific parts, dimensions, and filaments to adapt to each scenario and what is available.
